Add query how-to (#28)
web3-storage/docs: docs/how-tos/query.md

---
title: Query
description: Learn how to get details about files uploaded to Web3.Storage
---

# Query

> When you [store files with Web3.Storage][howto-store], you receive a Content Identifier (CID) that allows you to [retrieve it again][howto-retrieve]. The CID can also be used to query the service for details about how the data is stored on the [decentralized storage networks][concepts-decentralized-storage] that Web3.Storage uses under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you [store a file][howto-store] with Web3.Storage you receive a content identifier (CID) that you can use to [retrieve the file][howto-retrieve]. The CID can also be used to query the service for details about _how_ the data is stored on the [decentralized storage networks][concepts-decentralized-storage] that Web3.Storage uses under the hood.
```

> This guide will show how to use the [JavaScript client library][reference-js-client] to get information about content that's been uploaded to Web3.Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will show how to use the [JavaScript client library][reference-js-client] to get information about content on Web3.Storage.
```

## Installing the client

In your JavaScript project, add the `web3.storage` package to your dependencies:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

npm install web3.storage
```

## Creating a client instance

To create a `Web3Storage` client object, we need to pass an access token into the [constructor][reference-js-constructor]:

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

import { Web3Storage } from 'web3.storage'
const token = process.env.WEB3_STORAGE_TOKEN
const client = new Web3Storage({ token })
```

> If you don't yet have an access token, head to the [Quickstart guide][quickstart]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Get an API token
If you don't yet have an access token, head to the [Quickstart guide to get one →][quickstart]
:::
```

## Querying for status information

The client object's `status` method accepts a CID string and returns a JSON object with information about the upload.

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

  "created": "2021-07-20T09:43:47.756391Z",
  "dagSize": 15291,
  "pins": [
    {
      "status": "Pinned",
      "updated": "2021-07-20T14:11:28.418725Z",
      "peerId": "12D3KooWMbibcXHwkSjgV7VZ8TMfDKi6pZvmi97P83ZwHm9LEsvV",
      "peerName": "12D3KooWMbibcXHwkSjgV7VZ8TMfDKi6pZvmi97P83ZwHm9LEsvV",
      "region": null
    },
    {
      "status": "Pinned",
      "updated": "2021-07-20T14:11:29.308487Z",
      "peerId": "12D3KooWF6uxxqZf4sXpQEbNE4BfbVJWAKWrFSKamxmWm4E9vyzd",
      "peerName": "12D3KooWF6uxxqZf4sXpQEbNE4BfbVJWAKWrFSKamxmWm4E9vyzd",
      "region": null
    },
    {
      "status": "Pinned",
      "updated": "2021-07-20T14:11:30.135495Z",
      "peerId": "12D3KooWFe387JFDpgNEVCP5ARut7gRkX7YuJCXMStpkq714ziK6",
      "peerName": "12D3KooWFe387JFDpgNEVCP5ARut7gRkX7YuJCXMStpkq714ziK6",
      "region": null
    }
  ],
  "deals": []
}
```

The `cid` field contains the same CID that was passed into the `status` method, so that you don't have to keep track of which response goes with which request.

The `created` field contains an [ISO-8601 datetime string][iso-8601] indicating when the content was first uploaded to Web3.Storage.

> The `dagSize` field contains the size in bytes of the [Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)][ipfs-docs-merkle-dag] that contains all of the uploaded content. Note that this is the size of the data that is transferred over the network to Web3.Storage during upload, and it may be slightly larger or smaller than the total size of the files on disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `dagSize` field contains the size in bytes of the [Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)][ipfs-docs-merkle-dag] that contains all of the uploaded content. Note that this is the size of the data that is transferred over the network to Web3.Storage during upload, and it will be slightly larger than the total size of the files on disk.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dagSize` field contains the size in bytes of the [Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)][ipfs-docs-merkle-dag] that contains all of the uploaded content. This is the size of the data that is transferred over the network to Web3.Storage during upload, and is slightly larger than the total size of the files on disk.
```

> The `pins` field contains an array of objects describing the IPFS nodes that have ["pinned"][ipfs-docs-pinning] the data, making it available for fast retrieval using the IPFS network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pins` field contains an array of objects describing the IPFS nodes that have [pinned][ipfs-docs-pinning] the data, making it available for fast retrieval using the IPFS network.
```

> Finally, the `deals` field contains an array of objects describing the Filecoin storage providers that have made [storage deals][fil-docs-deals] committing them to store the data for an extended period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the `deals` field contains an array of objects describing the Filecoin storage providers that have made [storage deals][fil-docs-deals]. These storage providers have now committed to storing the data for a period of time.
```
